.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt IOTIVITY 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm OCInit,
.Nm OCStop
.Nm etc
.Nd Iotivity library.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In hello.h
.In hi.h
.Ft int
.Fo hello
.Fa "int C" "const char *prefix"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fn hi
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn hi
and
.Fn hello
functions print out greeting messages.
.Pp
The
.Fn hi
function accepts no arguments and prints out
.Qq hello, world .
.Pp
The
.Fn hello
function accepts a value
.Fa C ,
which if non-zero indicates output should be uppercase; and
.Fa prefix ,
which, if non-NULL, shall be prefixed to the output.
The
.Fa prefix
argument, if non-NULL, must be nil-terminated.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn hi
function does not return a value.
.Pp
The
.Fn hello
function returns 1 on success, 0 on failure.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Using
.Fn strtonum
correctly is meant to be simpler than the alternative functions.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
int iterations;
const char *errstr;

iterations = strtonum(optarg, 1, 64, &errstr);
if (errstr)
    errx(1, "number of iterations is %s: %s", errstr, optarg);
.Ed
.Pp
The above example will guarantee that the value of iterations is between
1 and 64 (inclusive).
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ERANGE
The given string was out of range.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The given string did not consist solely of digit characters.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Ar minval
was larger than
.Ar maxval .
.El
.Pp
If an error occurs,
.Fa errstr
will be set to one of the following strings:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "too largeXX" -compact
.It too large
The result was larger than the provided maximum value.
.It too small
The result was smaller than the provided minimum value.
.It invalid
The string did not consist solely of digit characters.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr atof 3 ,
.Xr atoi 3 ,
.Xr atol 3 ,
.Xr atoll 3 ,
.Xr sscanf 3 ,
.Xr strtod 3 ,
.Xr strtol 3 ,
.Xr strtoul 3
.Sh STANDARDS
.Fn strtonum
is an
.Ox
extension.
The existing alternatives, such as
.Xr atoi 3
and
.Xr strtol 3 ,
are either impossible or difficult to use safely.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn strtonum
function first appeared in
.Ox 3.6 .
